doc/test-framework/scorecard: update scorecard documentation (#1433)
operator-framework/operator-sdk: doc/test-framework/scorecard.md

The scorecard works by creating all resources required by CRs and the operator. For the operator
deployment, it also adds another container to the operator's pod that is used to record calls to the API server,
which are analyzed by the scorecard for various tests. The scorecard will also look at some of the fields in the
CR object itself for some of the tests.

> As of `v0.8.0` scorecard also supports plugins. This allows external developers extend the functionality of the scorecard and add additional tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of `v0.8.0` scorecard also supports plugins. This allows external developers to extend the functionality of the scorecard and add additional tests.
```

The config file support is provided by the `viper` package. For more info on how viper
configuration works, see [`viper`'s README][viper].

## What Each Builtin Test Does

There are 8 builtin tests the scorecard can run. If multiple CRs are specified, the test environment is fully cleaned up after each CR so each CR gets a clean testing environment.

### Basic Operator

#### Spec Block Exists

> This test checks the Custom Resource(s) that is created in the cluster to make sure that all CRs have a spec block. This test

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This test checks the Custom Resource(s) created in the cluster to make sure that all CRs have a spec block. This test
```

has a maximum score of 1.

#### Status Block Exists

> This test checks the Custom Resource(s) that is created in the cluster to make sure that all CRs have a status block. This

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This test checks the Custom Resource(s) created in the cluster to make sure that all CRs have a status block. This
```

#### Provided APIs have validation

> This test verifies that the CRDs for the provided CRs contain a validation section and that there is a validation for each

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This test verifies that the CRDs for the provided CRs contain a validation section and that there is validation for each
```

The way validation in relation to CRDs is referred to is a bit wonky in general, but this reads the best IMO.

spec and status field detected in the CR. This test has a maximum score equal to the number of CRs provided via the `--cr-manifest` flag.

#### Owned CRDs Have Resources Listed

This test makes sure that the CRDs for each CR provided via the `--cr-manifest` flag have a `resources` subsection in the [`owned` CRDs section][owned-crds] of the CSV. If the
test detects used resources that are not listed in the resources section, it will list them in the suggestions at the end of the test.
This test has a maximum score equal to the number of CRs provided via the `--cr-manifest` flag.

#### CRs Have At Least 1 Example

> This test checks that the CSV has an [`alm-examples` section][alm-examples] for each CR provided by the `--cr-manifest` flag in its metadatas' annotations. This test has a maximum score

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This test checks that the CSV has an [`alm-examples` section][alm-examples] for each CR provided by the `--cr-manifest` flag in its metadata's annotations. This test has a maximum score
```

> This test checks that the CSV has an [`alm-examples` section][alm-examples] for each CR provided by the `--cr-manifest` flag in its metadata's annotations. This test has a maximum score

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This test checks that the CSV has an [`alm-examples` annotation][alm-examples] for each CR passed to the `--cr-manifest` flag in its metadata. This test has a maximum score
```

equal to the number of CRs provided via the `--cr-manifest` flag.

#### Spec Fields With Descriptors

This test verifies that every field in the Custom Resources' spec sections have a corresponding descriptor listed in
the CSV. This test has a maximum score equal to the total number of fields in the spec sections of each custom resource passed in via the `--cr-manifest` flag.

#### Status Fields With Descriptors

This test verifies that every field in the Custom Resources' status sections have a corresponding descriptor listed in
the CSV. This test has a maximum score equal to the total number of fields in the status sections of each custom resource passed in via the `--cr-manifest` flag.

## Extending the Scorecard with Plugins

To allow the scorecard to be further extended and capable of more complex testing as well as allow the community to make their own scorecard tests, a plugin system has been implemented
for the scorecard. To use it, a user simply needs to add a binary or script to a `scorecard/bin` directory in their operator's root directory that runs the plugin. It is

> recommended to run plugins with a script to allow more configuration from the user and place other required assets in another subdirectory in the `scorecard` directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
recommended to run plugins with a script to allow more configuration from the user and place other required assets in another subdirectory in the `scorecard` directory, ex. `scorecard/assets`.
```

> For instance, `scorecard/assets`. The scorecard runs all plugins from the root `scorecard` directory. Since the scorecard will run all executable files in the scorecard's

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The scorecard runs all plugins from the root `scorecard` directory. Since the scorecard will run all executable files in the scorecard's
```

`bin` subdirectory, the plugins can be written in any programming language supported by the OS the scorecard is being run on.

> To provide results to the scorecard, the plugin must output a valid JSON object to its `stdout`. Invalid JSON in the `stdout` will result in the plugin being marked as failed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To provide results to the scorecard, the plugin must output a valid JSON object to its `stdout`. Invalid JSON in `stdout` will result in the plugin being marked as failed.
```

To provide logs to the scorecard, plugins can either set the `log` field for the scorecard suites they return or they can output logs to `stderr`, which will stream the log

> to the console if the scorecard is being run in with `human-readable` output or be added to the main ScorecardOutput `log` field when being run with the output flag set to `json`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to the console if the scorecard is being run in with `--output=human-readable` or be added to the main ScorecardOutput `log` field when being run with `--output=json`.
```

### JSON format

> The JSON output is formatted in the same way that a Kubernetes API would be, which allows us to make updates and new versions of the schema if necessary as well as use various

Reviewer: Trying to avoid the use of "us".
```suggestion
The JSON output is formatted in the same way that a Kubernetes API would be, which allows for updates to the schema as well as the use of various
```

> kubernetes helpers. The Golang structs are defined in `pkg/apis/scorecard/v1alpha1/types.go` and can be easily implemented by plugins written in Golang. Below is the JSON Schema:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubernetes helpers. The Golang structs are defined in `pkg/apis/scorecard/v1alpha1/types.go` and can be easily implemented by plugins written in Golang. Below is the JSON Schema:
```

        },
        "name": {
          "type": "string",
          "description": "Name is the name of the test"
        },
        "description": {
          "type": "string",
          "description": "Description describes what the test does"
        },
        "earnedPoints": {
          "type": "integer",
          "description": "EarnedPoints is how many points the test received after running"
        },
        "maximumPoints": {
          "type": "integer",
          "description": "MaximumPoints is the maximum number of points possible for the test"
        },
        "suggestions": {
          "items": {
            "type": "string"
          },
          "type": "array",
          "description": "Suggestions is a list of suggestions for the user to improve their score (if applicable)"
        },
        "errors": {
          "items": {
            "type": "string"
          },
          "type": "array",
          "description": "Errors is a list of the errors that occured during the test (this can include both fatal and non-fatal errors)"
        }
      },
      "additionalProperties": false,
      "type": "object"
    }
  }
}
```

> NOTE: The `ScorecardOutput` object is designed the same as a kubernetes API, and thus also has a full `TypeMeta` and `ObjectMeta`. Those are optional and not

Reviewer: Nit: Highlight the note with **bold**.
```suggestion
**NOTE:** The `ScorecardOutput` object is designed the same as a Kubernetes API, and thus also has a full `TypeMeta` and `ObjectMeta`. Those are optional and not
```

used by the scorecard at the current time. These optional fields have thus been removed from the schema for cleanliness and the schema only includes the fields

> the scorecard currently looks at.

Reviewer 3: Do you think we should make these required now and start checking for them? The other option is to allow them to be optional for `v1alpha1` and required for all future revisions. I'm okay with either option, but if we go with the latter options, I think we should add another sentence to this note that says these fields will be required in future revisions to this API.

Author: While we don't actually check `apiVersion` yet (which we should), I meant that field to be required as well as the `kind` (which is why those are marked as required in the JSONSchema). I was referring to other fields in `ObjectMeta`, such as `selfLink`, `uid`, `creationTimestamp`, etc. are not required at the current time. I'll rephrase this to make that clear.

Author: Updated note

Example of a valid JSON output:

```json

{
  "kind": "ScorecardOutput",
  "apiVersion": "osdk.openshift.io/v1alpha1",
  "log": "",
  "results": [
    {
      "name": "Custom Scorecard",
      "description": "Custom operator scorecard tests",
      "error": 0,
      "pass": 1,
      "partialPass": 1,
      "fail": 0,
      "totalTests": 2,
      "totalScorePercent": 71,
      "tests": [
        {
          "state": "partial_pass",
          "name": "Operator Actions Reflected In Status",
          "description": "The operator updates the Custom Resources status when the application state is updated",
          "earnedPoints": 2,
          "maximumPoints": 3,
          "suggestions": [
              "Operator should update status when scaling cluster down"
          ],
          "errors": []
        },
        {
          "state": "pass",
          "name": "Verify health of cluster",
          "description": "The cluster created by the operator is working properly",
          "earnedPoints": 1,
          "maximumPoints": 1,
          "suggestions": [],
          "errors": []
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

> NOTE: The `ScorecardOutput.Log` field is only intended to be used to log the scorecard's output and the scorecard will ignore that field if a plugin provides it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**NOTE:** The `ScorecardOutput.Log` field is only intended to be used to log the scorecard's output and the scorecard will ignore that field if a plugin provides it.
```
